Wrap Text Fields in Quotes for Export and Download
=====================================================================

.. include:: /shared/ProductLabels/CloudAndCustomerManaged_Label.rst

*Applies from version 5.9.12*

**Wrap Text Fields in Quotes for Exports and Downloads** is a setting
for Compose found in *Admin Settings* > **Compose Settings**. It was added
to allow for seamless import of Compose query results into **MS
Excel** keeping the correct values for the text-like data types when
columns may have numeric values with leading zeros.

.. note::

  Wrap Text Fields in Quotes for Exports and Downloads setting applies
  to the following data types:

  CHAR  VARCHAR  LONGVARCHAR  CLOB  SQLXML  NCHAR      

  NCLOB  DATALINK  DISTINCT   LONGNVARCHAR   NVARCHAR


You need the role of the *Server Admin* to access and change this setting.

When columns of text-like types have numeric values that start with
leading zeros, such zeros are known to be dropped by Microsoft Excel
when query result sets exported from Alation are imported into this
tool. For example, if a field of type **varchar** has
value **000000000000234**, it will be interpreted as a numeric field by
MS Excel and displayed as **234**.

To avoid having to fix the cell formatting in MS Excel and other desktop
tools, you can enable pre-formatting of these data types using
the **Wrap Text Fields in Quotes for Exports and Downloads** setting.
This pre-formatting consists in "wrapping" the text-like data types in
additional quote marks in the result set files exported or downloaded
from Alation. When enabled,  such field values will be wrapped in a set
of additional quote marks in the exported or downloaded file to
prevent these values from being treated as a numeric type by MS Excel
and other desktop applications.

To enable Wrap Text Fields in Quotes for Exports and Downloads,

1. Go to Admin Settings > **Compose Settings** to open the **Compose** tab of the settings:

   .. image:: ../../_static/Text_Wrap_01.png
       :width: 5.5in
       :align: center

2. On the Compose tab, find the switch **Wrap Text Fields in Quotes for Exports and Downloads**. Click the switch to toggle it on:

   .. image:: ../../_static/Text_Wrap_02.png 
       :width: 5.5in
       :align: center

4. Click **Save the changes** to apply the change:

   .. image:: ../../_static/Text_Wrap_03.png
       :width: 5.5in
       :align: center

Examples
----------

When this setting is enabled, your result set exports and downloads from
Compose and the Catalog will wrap text-like fields into additional
quotes. These added quotes will NOT appear in Excel sheets when you
import the exported or downloaded result sets.

Here is an example of a query results exported to CSV with Wrap Text
Fields in Quotes for Exports and Downloads **enabled** (assuming that
``inventory_code`` column is **varchar** type):

::

   field_id,inventory_code
   3065,"=""007370013197"""
   3137,"=""006370013199"""
   3283,"=""000524731198"""
   3333,"=""000546731197"""
   1467,"=""000647001319"""
   3151,"=""000786519198"""

To compare, this is how the same export looks like with Wrap Text
Fields in Quotes for Exports and Downloads **disabled**:

::

   field_id,inventory_code
   3065,007370013197
   3137,006370013199
   3283,000524731198
   3333,000546731197
   1467,000647001319
   3151,000786519198
