Curate Catalog Pages to Clarify Your Data
=====================================================================

.. include:: /shared/ProductLabels/CloudAndCustomerManaged_Label.rst

Catalog pages hold information about a company’s data objects, including
its data sources, schemas, tables, columns, directories, files, queries,
and BI content. For each data object, the catalog page includes title,
description, and fields for additional information. All catalog pages,
except for queries, have templates that can be customized with custom
fields.

Catalog pages are the primary way that Alation conveys specific data
object information to its users. With Alation, information about data is
documented in one place, reducing the need to rely on institutional knowledge
for users to gain an understanding of their data sources.

Some of the ways we have seen customers curate catalog pages:

-  Documenting queries so new or inexperienced analysts can understand
   and re-run existing queries.
-  Curating data sets so that key resources are not asked the same
   question repeatedly.

Best Practice #1 - Prioritize catalog pages to curate
------------------------------------------------------------------------

After data sources are connected and metadata extracted, there may be
many tens of thousands of catalog pages. Companies should prioritize the
catalog pages based on business criticality, complexity, and usage.

Business criticality can be assessed based on the importance of the data
set to the business. This is likely to be data sets that meet high-level
corporate objectives, such as revenue enhancement, cost savings, or
regulatory compliance.

Another driver for prioritization is complexity. For instance, if a data
set generates an outsized number of questions, it should be considered
for priority curation so that critical resources do not need to answer
the same questions repeatedly.

Another driver of prioritization is how often a data set is used.
Alation’s Query Log Ingestion will measure the relative use of schemas,
tables, and columns. Alation presents the results in the "popularity"
bar for each data object. High usage catalog pages are a natural place
to focus efforts.

*Object Popularity*

.. image:: ../../_static/Screen_Shot_2019-02-07_at_10.12.30_AM.png
    :width: 5.5in
    :align: center

Best Practice #2 - Create custom templates for each type of catalog page
------------------------------------------------------------------------

Carefully consider the information requirements for each type of catalog
page. The information contained on catalog pages serves two purposes:

- Help to find data elements.
- Define the data elements when found.

To help users find data elements, think about how the typical user would
search for what he or she is looking for. As an example, if users are
searching based on certain geographies then there should be a custom
field for region so that when users do advanced searches they can
quickly narrow their search. Other custom fields should be added that
will aid either in both free text search and advanced search. 

After users have found the catalog page for the data element they are
looking for, the custom template should include fields that provide all
of the information that a typical user would need. For example, if users
are concerned with data that is personally identifiable, there could be
a PII field that has a multi-picker indicating "PII" or "Non-PII" or
"Unclassified". As another example, we have a pharmaceutical company
that has a custom field for "molecule" so that its analysts know that
they are working with the data set relevant for their drug
investigations. 

To create the custom template, a core team of knowledgeable users should
convene in workshops and come to agreement on the custom fields that
should be included for each type of catalog page for both searching and
data clarification.

Best Practice #3 - Start with a small number of gold standard catalog pages
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

After the templates are defined, the core team should set out to create a
small number of catalog pages for each type that will serve as the "gold
standard" or model for other stewards to follow when curating a catalog
page.

Virtually all catalog pages will include a description of the data
object. Descriptions should be complete and to the point. Including
descriptive commentary for data objects will enhance search results and
enable self-service. The descriptions should leverage the power of
Alation by making links to other parts of the catalog, including
articles, related catalog pages, as well as external links, where
appropriate. Additionally, links should be included to subject matter
experts who have knowledge that is complementary to the assigned
stewards. 

For schemas, tables, and columns, Alation may try to assign natural
language names based on the machine language names captured during
metadata extraction. For the gold standard catalog pages the titles
should either be confirmed or entered. 

Finally, all built-in and custom fields should be completed.

*Sample Curated Catalog Page*

.. image:: ../../_static/Screen_Shot_2019-02-07_at_10.20.52_AM.png
    :width: 5.5in
    :align: center

Best Practice #4 - Assign stewards to curate top priority catalog pages
------------------------------------------------------------------------

Stewards should be selected based on their knowledge of the data sets
covered by the catalog pages. Good candidates for stewards may be Top
Users of the data set, which Alation identifies during Query Log
Ingestion. Email the proposed stewards and explain their
responsibilities, and include links to the gold standard catalog page.

Top Users

.. image:: ../../_static/Screen_Shot_2019-02-07_at_10.27.48_AM.png 
    :width: 3.0in
    :align: center

Best Practice #5 - Set and re-visit goals
------------------------------------------------------------------------

The goals for curation of catalog pages will vary considerably by
organization, driven by the number of data objects to be cataloged as
well as the capacity of the people on the team. Whatever the
organization’s particular goals, the core team should communicate the
goals for the extended team as well as goals for the individual
stewards.

One approach to goal setting could be based on a segmentation of the
prioritized data objects. For instance, an organization could set as its
goals to document 100% of critical items, 80% of important items, and
20% of the other data objects. You should breakdown these
organization-wide goals to the individual curators who will be doing the
documentation. 

Whatever the organization’s goals are initially, they are likely to
change over time and should be re-visited periodically. As new data
sources are added, you will need to add these to the mix, prioritize,
and assign to stewards.
